hundreds of thousands of years ago
rivers of volcanic lava rushed through
what is now spain
with time it turned to rock and formed a
crag over the abyss
back in the middle ages someone decided
to build a village on that basaltic rock
between the rivers fluvia and toronto
they named it
castell foley de la rocca you can see it
from the distance
and from sunset till midnight the cliffs
are illuminated
making it look even more like a
mysterious medieval castle
the village is shorter than a mile and
is made up of narrow shadowy streets
and little squares that all blend into
one main artery
most of the buildings here are made of
the same material as the pedestal the
village stands on
it's all volcanic rocks the place is so
tightly pressed together
it feels like one wrong step and you'd
fall into the abyss
the village has the only working basalt
quarry in spain the tallest building in
the village is the saint salvador church
it has a history dating back to the 13th
century
and was rebuilt many times this is one
of the smallest towns in catalonia
with a population of just around a
thousand people
yet it has two museums one of them is
history themed and the other one is
museum of
cured meats that's right you can learn
the history of meat making and taste
local specialties for free
the town of monawi usa has a mayor a
clerk
a treasurer a librarian a tavern keeper
and a bartender
yet the population is still just one
elsie eiler has been doing
all those jobs paying taxes to herself
and voting herself for mayor
since two thousand four back in the
nineteen thirties
monaway had a population of 150 people
with working grocery shops and
restaurants when farming conditions got
worse people started leaving family by
family
till now there's just one
[Music]
hey you can save some good money on
ceilings and back walls in this spanish
town
3 000 locals live under and in the size
of cadiz mountains
and use them as natural backup the first
settlers moved in here in the
prehistoric times
the rocks are perfect for keeping cool
in the summer and warm in the winter
the australian town of kuberpedi is
famous for precious opals found here
and for its underground residents built
from old abandoned mines
back in the day the miners could hardly
work under the burning desert sun
so someone decided to put a tent
directly in the mine
later it turned into a home now there
are three churches
a bookstore an art gallery a bar and
hotels with swimming pools underground
moroccan chefchaouen has become famous
worldwide for its blue
houses the town was founded to stand
against an
outside invasion in the 15th century and
was originally white
some people believe it was painted blue
to symbolize the skies
others to repel mosquitoes and prevent
the spread of malaria
in either case the locals are proud of
it and regularly add
a new layer of blue on their walls
any cat lover in the world should put
aoshima japan on their bucket list
there are six times more cats than
people on this cat island
with just about 15 humans and over a
hundred felines living there
there are no restaurants hotels or even
cars in aoshima
tourists just come here for the purrs
if you are more of a bunny person you
gotta love another japanese island
okunoshima also known as the rabbit
island
in sido inland sea they say some boy let
eight rabbits run free on the island in
and the number quickly grew to 700 over
the following years
you can also enjoy hot springs beaches
and cycling here
[Music]
pete horn village is nicknamed venice of
the netherlands
and it doesn't have a single road for
cars it's all about waterways walking
paths
bike trails and little colorful houses
it's two thousand something residents
mostly live on private islands and have
to cross one of the 180
bridges to go places that were a popular
whisper boat with a tiny silent engine
not to ruin the romantic atmosphere
[Music]
every place is unique unless it's a
well-made chinese replica
thames town is a good proof of that it
was finished in 2006
with faux victorian and faux tudor
buildings
fish and chip places and red phone
booths everywhere
the place is super popular for uk themed
wedding photo shoots
you can also find a replica of an
austrian village of hallstatt
the sphinx the eiffel tower and venetian
canals
all within china
the entire town of whittier alaska lives
under one roof of a 14-story building
of a former military barracks that's 200
people
plus all the shops a police station a
post office
a hospital and a church the idea behind
all this is to save money on heating
in the always cold climate and let the
people have
everything they need in one place this
way they don't have to face the strong
winds outside
residents and tourists in miyakejima a
japanese island in the philippine sea
never leave home without a gas mask the
place sits at the base of an active
volcano
and there are always high levels of
dangerous sulfur gas in the air
oh that must smell good kidding the
locals are paid by the government to
live here
and the tourists come for scuba diving
and to watch dolphins and rare birds
[Music]
another dangerous place to live is in
pennsylvania
centralia used to be a big coal mining
center
then somebody decided to do a landfill
cleanup that led to a fire
and it's been burning for decades now
that and the sinkholes in the area turn
the place into a ghost town
with about five original brave residents
left
the italian village of viginella was
built right at the bottom of a deep
valley
and on the wrong side of the mountains
they cast a huge
shadow and deprived the village of the
sun for the entire winter
the locals used to live like that for
centuries until
one engineer decided to build a large
mirror
high on the opposite slope of the
mountain it's operated by a computer
and reflects light on the central square
of viginella for at least six hours a
day
during the darkest months the name of
this town
which i can't pronounce translates to
oil rocks
and is located entirely in the open sea
on the world's first
offshore oil platform its population of
around 5 000 regularly changes
people come here in shifts for a few
months it has
legit hotels bakeries recreation centers
and
whatever else you would expect to find
in a regular town
its future is unclear though once the
oil reserves in
it will not likely stay afloat
the japanese town of nagoro is known as
scarecrow village
the last children were born here over 20
years ago
it officially has less than 50 residents
but
it feels complete thanks to 350
life-size
human dolls when a local lady came back
here in 2000 to look after her aging
father
she saw the empty streets shops and
schools
to change that she and her friends
started making cute dolls to replace the
residents if you're looking for the most
relaxed place in the world
you could try the villages in florida
two important conditions to move here
are one there must be at least one
person over 55 in your home
and two you have to leave behind any
family members under 19.
the most popular means of transport in
the villages is a golf
cart there are all sorts of fun free
activities for the residents
so it's far from being boring
there are many places around the world
where people live in caves and the side
of mountains
matmata in southern tunisia stands out
because the local berbers make their own
caves of sandstone
they've been digging large pits in the
ground and then smaller caves for rooms
inside for a
thousand years many locals still prefer
this traditional housing option
even though there are more conventional
houses on the surface
there's a village in india that gets
more rainfall than any other place in
the world
to adapt and survive somehow the people
of moss and rom
have learned to build natural living
bridges that are made of rubber tree
roots
and don't rot as much as usual wooden
structures
those who work outside wear full body
umbrellas made of bamboo
and banana leaves